Tatyana, who, as we said above, was a laundress (however, she, as a skillful and learned laundress, was entrusted with one thin linen), was a woman of about twenty, small, thin, blond, with moles on her left cheek. Moles on the left cheek are revered in Russia as a bad omen - a portent of an unhappy life ... Tatyana could not boast of her fate. From an early age she was kept in a black body; she worked for two, and never saw any kindness; she was poorly dressed, her salary was the smallest; she didn't have any relatives: one old housekeeper, left behind in the village, was her uncle, and her other uncles were peasants - that's all. Once upon a time, the ode was reputed to be a beauty, but the beauty from her very soon jumped off. She had a very meek disposition, or, better to say, frightened; she felt complete indifference to herself, she was mortally afraid of others; she thought only of how to finish the work by the deadline, never spoke to anyone, and trembled at the very name of the lady, although she hardly knew her by sight. When Gerasim was brought from the village, she almost froze with horror at the sight of his huge figure, tried in every possible way not to meet with him, even blinked, it happened when she happened to run past him, hurrying from home to the laundry - Gerasim at first did not pay attention to her special attention, then he began to chuckle when he came across her, then he began to look at her, and finally did not take his eyes off her at all. She fell in love with him; Whether by a meek expression on his face, or by timidity of movements - God knows! Once she was making her way through the yard, carefully lifting the starched lady's jacket on her spread fingers ... someone suddenly grabbed her hard by the elbow; she turned around and just screamed: Gerasim stood behind her. Laughing foolishly and humming affectionately, he held out to her a gingerbread cock, with gold leaf on its tail and wings. She was about to refuse, but he forcibly shoved it right into her hand, shook his head, walked away and, turning around, once again mumbled something very friendly to her. From that day on, he never gave her rest: wherever she would go, he was right there, walking towards her, smiling, humming, waving his hands, suddenly pulling out the ribbon from his bosom and sticking it with a broom in front of her dust will clear. The poor girl simply did not know what to do or what to do. Soon the whole house learned about the tricks of the mute janitor; Taunts, jokes, sharp words fell on Tatiana. However, not everyone dared to scoff at Gerasim: he did not like jokes; and she was left alone with him. Glad not happy, but the girl came under his protection. Like all deaf and dumb people, he was very quick-witted and very well understood when they laughed at him or her. Once at dinner the castellan's wife, Tatyana's boss, began to poke her, as they say, and drove her to such an extent that the poor woman did not know where to put her eyes and almost cried out of frustration. Gerasim suddenly raised himself, stretched out his huge hand, put it on the head of the castellan and looked into her face with such gloomy ferocity that she bent down to the table. All were silent. Gerasim again took up the spoon and continued to sip the cabbage soup. "See, deaf devil, devil!" - muttered all in an undertone, and the castellan got up and went into the maiden's. And then another time, noticing that Kapiton, the very Kapiton that was just being discussed, somehow got too kindly hot with Tatyana, Gerasim called him to him with his finger, took him to the coach shed, yes, grabbing the end of the drawbar that was in the corner , slightly but pointedly threatened him with it. Since then, no one has spoken to Tatiana. And he got away with it all. True, the castellan's wife, as soon as she ran into the girl's room, immediately fainted and generally acted so skillfully that on the same day she brought to the attention of the lady the rude act of Gerasim; but the bizarre old woman only laughed, several times, to the utter insult of the castellan, forced her to repeat how, they say, he pressed you with his heavy hand, and the next day sent Gerasim a ruble ruble. She favored him as a faithful and strong watchman. Gerasim was quite afraid of her. but nevertheless he hoped for her mercy and was about to go to her with a request if she would allow him to marry Tatyana. He was just waiting for a new caftan, promised to him by the butler, in order to appear before the lady in a decent form, when suddenly this very lady came up with the idea of ??marrying Tatyana to Kapiton. Tatyana, who, as we said above, was a laundress (however, she, as a skillful and learned washerwoman, only delicate linen was entrusted), there was a woman of about twenty, small, thin, blond, with moles on her left cheek. Moles on the left cheek are revered in Russia as a bad omen - a portent of an unhappy life ... Tatyana could not boast of her fate. From an early age she was kept in a black body; she worked for two, and never saw any kindness; she was poorly dressed, she received the smallest salary; she didn’t have any relatives: one old housekeeper left behind in the village for disrepair was her uncle and other uncles 


Tatyana, who, as we said above, was a laundress (however, she, as a skillful and learned laundress, was entrusted with one thin linen), was a woman of about twenty, small, thin, blond, with moles on her left cheek. Moles on the left cheek are revered in Russia as a bad omen - a portent of an unhappy life ... Tatyana could not boast of her fate. From an early age she was kept in a black body; she worked for two, and never saw any kindness; she was poorly dressed, her salary was the smallest; she didn't have any relatives: one old housekeeper, left behind in the village, was her uncle, and her other uncles were peasants - that's all. Once upon a time, the ode was reputed to be a beauty, but the beauty from her very soon jumped off. She had a very meek disposition, or, better to say, frightened; she felt complete indifference to herself, she was mortally afraid of others; she thought only of how to finish the work by the deadline, never spoke to anyone, and trembled at the very name of the lady, although she hardly knew her by sight. When Gerasim was brought from the village, she almost froze with horror at the sight of his huge figure, tried in every possible way not to meet with him, even blinked, it happened when she happened to run past him, hurrying from home to the laundry - Gerasim at first did not pay attention to her special attention, then he began to chuckle when he came across her, then he began to look at her, and finally did not take his eyes off her at all. She fell in love with him; Whether by a meek expression on his face, or by timidity of movements - God knows! Once she was making her way through the yard, carefully lifting the starched lady's jacket on her spread fingers ... someone suddenly grabbed her hard by the elbow; she turned around and just screamed: Gerasim stood behind her. Laughing foolishly and humming affectionately, he held out to her a gingerbread cock, with gold leaf on its tail and wings. She was about to refuse, but he forcibly shoved it right into her hand, shook his head, walked away and, turning around, once again mumbled something very friendly to her. From that day on, he never gave her rest: wherever she would go, he was right there, walking towards her, smiling, humming, waving his hands, suddenly pulling out the ribbon from his bosom and sticking it with a broom in front of her dust will clear. The poor girl simply did not know what to do or what to do. Soon the whole house learned about the tricks of the mute janitor; Taunts, jokes, sharp words fell on Tatiana. However, not everyone dared to scoff at Gerasim: he did not like jokes; and she was left alone with him. Glad not happy, but the girl came under his protection. Like all deaf and dumb people, he was very quick-witted and very well understood when they laughed at him or her. Once at dinner the castellan's wife, Tatyana's boss, began to poke her, as they say, and drove her to such an extent that the poor woman did not know where to put her eyes and almost cried out of frustration. Gerasim suddenly raised himself, stretched out his huge hand, put it on the head of the castellan and looked into her face with such gloomy ferocity that she bent down to the table. All were silent. Gerasim again took up the spoon and continued to sip the cabbage soup. "See, deaf devil, devil!" - muttered all in an undertone, and the castellan got up and went into the maiden's. And then another time, noticing that Kapiton, the very Kapiton that was just being discussed, somehow got too kindly hot with Tatyana, Gerasim called him to him with his finger, took him to the coach shed, yes, grabbing the end of the drawbar that was in the corner , slightly but pointedly threatened him with it. Since then, no one has spoken to Tatiana. And he got away with it all. True, the castellan's wife, as soon as she ran into the girl's room, immediately fainted and generally acted so skillfully that on the same day she brought to the attention of the lady the rude act of Gerasim; but the bizarre old woman only laughed, several times, to the utter insult of the castellan, forced her to repeat how, they say, he pressed you with his heavy hand, and the next day sent Gerasim a ruble ruble. She favored him as a faithful and strong watchman. Gerasim was quite afraid of her. but nevertheless he hoped for her mercy and was about to go to her with a request if she would allow him to marry Tatyana. He was just waiting for a new caftan, promised to him by the butler, in order to appear before the lady in a decent form, when suddenly this very lady came up with the idea of ??marrying Tatyana to Kapiton. Tatyana, who, as we said above, was a laundress (however, she, as a skillful and learned washerwoman, only delicate linen was entrusted), there was a woman of about twenty, small, thin, blond, with moles on her left cheek. Moles on the left cheek are revered in Russia as a bad omen - a portent of an unhappy life ... Tatyana could not boast of her fate. From an early age she was kept in a black body; she worked for two, and never saw any kindness; she was poorly dressed, she received the smallest salary; she didn’t have any relatives: one old housekeeper left behind in the village for disrepair was her uncle and other her uncles were peasants - that's all. Once upon a time, the ode was reputed to be a beauty, but the beauty from her very soon jumped off. She had a very meek disposition, or, better to say, frightened; she felt complete indifference to herself, she was mortally afraid of others; she thought only of how to finish the work by the deadline, never spoke to anyone, and trembled at the very name of the lady, although she hardly knew her by sight. When Gerasim was brought from the village, she almost froze with horror at the sight of his huge figure, tried in every possible way not to meet with him, even blinked, it happened when she happened to run past him, hurrying from home to the laundry - Gerasim at first did not pay attention to her special attention, then he began to chuckle when he came across her, then he began to look at her, and finally did not take his eyes off her at all. She fell in love with him; Whether by a meek expression on his face, or by timidity of movements - God knows! Once she was making her way through the yard, carefully lifting the starched lady's jacket on her spread fingers ... someone suddenly grabbed her hard by the elbow; she turned around and just screamed: Gerasim stood behind her. Laughing foolishly and humming affectionately, he held out to her a gingerbread cock, with gold leaf on its tail and wings. She was about to refuse, but he forcibly shoved it right into her hand, shook his head, walked away and, turning around, once again mumbled something very friendly to her. From that day on, he never gave her rest: wherever she would go, he was right there, walking towards her, smiling, humming, waving his hands, suddenly pulling out the ribbon from his bosom and sticking it with a broom in front of her dust will clear. The poor girl simply did not know what to do or what to do. Soon the whole house learned about the tricks of the mute janitor; Taunts, jokes, sharp words fell on Tatiana. However, not everyone dared to scoff at Gerasim: he did not like jokes; and she was left alone with him. Glad not happy, but the girl came under his protection. Like all deaf and dumb people, he was very quick-witted and very well understood when they laughed at him or her. Once at dinner the castellan's wife, Tatyana's boss, began to poke her, as they say, and drove her to such an extent that the poor woman did not know where to put her eyes and almost cried out of frustration. Gerasim suddenly raised himself, stretched out his huge hand, put it on the head of the castellan and looked into her face with such gloomy ferocity that she bent down to the table. All were silent. Gerasim again took up the spoon and continued to sip the cabbage soup. "See, deaf devil, devil!" - muttered all in an undertone, and the castellan got up and went into the maiden's. And then another time, noticing that Kapiton, the very Kapiton that was just being discussed, somehow got too kindly hot with Tatyana, Gerasim called him to him with his finger, took him to the coach shed, yes, grabbing the end of the drawbar that was in the corner , slightly but pointedly threatened him with it. Since then, no one has spoken to Tatiana. And he got away with it all. True, the castellan's wife, as soon as she ran into the girl's room, immediately fainted and generally acted so skillfully that on the same day she brought to the attention of the lady the rude act of Gerasim; but the bizarre old woman only laughed, several times, to the utter insult of the castellan, forced her to repeat how, they say, he pressed you with his heavy hand, and the next day sent Gerasim a ruble ruble. She favored him as a faithful and strong watchman. Gerasim was quite afraid of her. but nevertheless he hoped for her mercy and was about to go to her with a request if she would allow him to marry Tatyana. He was just waiting for a new caftan, promised to him by the butler, in order to appear before the lady in a decent form, when suddenly this very lady came up with the idea of ??marrying Tatyana for Kapiton.


Татьяна, состоявшая, как мы сказали выше, в должности прачки (впрочем, ей, как искусной и ученой прачке, поручалось одно тонкое белье), была женщина лет двадцати осьми, маленькая, худая, белокурая, с родинками на левой щеке. Родинки на левой щеке почитаются на Руси худой приметой -- предвещанием несчастной жизни... Татьяна не могла похвалиться своей участью. С ранней молодости ее держали в черном теле; работала она за двоих, а ласки никакой никогда не видала; одевали ее плохо, жалованье она получала самое маленькое; родни у ней все равно что не было: один какой-то старый ключник, оставленный за негодностью в деревне, доводился ей дядей да другие дядья у ней в мужиках состояли -- вот и все. Когда-то оде слыла красавицей, но красота с нее очень скоро соскочила. Нрава она была весьма смирного, или, лучше сказать, запуганного, к самой себе она чувствовала полное равнодушие, других боялась смертельно; думала только о том, как бы работу к сроку кончить, никогда ни с кем не говорила и трепетала при одном имени барыни, хотя та ее почти в глаза не знала. Когда Герасима привезли из деревни, она чуть не обмерла от ужаса при виде его громадной фигуры, всячески старалась не встречаться с ним, даже жмурилась, бывало, когда ей случалось пробегать мимо него, спеша из дома в прачечную --

Татьяна, состоявшая, как мы сказали выше, в должности прачки (впрочем, ей, как искусной и ученой прачке, поручалось одно тонкое белье), была женщина лет двадцати осьми, маленькая, худая, белокурая, с родинками на левой щеке. Родинки на левой щеке почитаются на Руси худой приметой -- предвещанием несчастной жизни... Татьяна не могла похвалиться своей участью. С ранней молодости ее держали в черном теле; работала она за двоих, а ласки никакой никогда не видала; одевали ее плохо, жалованье она получала самое маленькое; родни у ней все равно что не было: один какой-то старый ключник, оставленный за негодностью в деревне, доводился ей дядей да другие дядья у ней в мужиках состояли -- вот и все. Когда-то оде слыла красавицей, но красота с нее очень скоро соскочила. Нрава она была весьма смирного, или, лучше сказать, запуганного, к самой себе она чувствовала полное равнодушие, других боялась смертельно; думала только о том, как бы работу к сроку кончить, никогда ни с кем не говорила и трепетала при одном имени барыни, хотя та ее почти в глаза не знала. Когда Герасима привезли из деревни, она чуть не обмерла от ужаса при виде его громадной фигуры, всячески старалась не встречаться с ним, даже жмурилась, бывало, когда ей случалось пробегать мимо него, спеша из дома в прачечную -- Герасим сперва не обращал на нее особенного внимания, потом стал посмеиваться, когда она ему попадалась, потом и заглядываться на нее начал, наконец и вовсе глаз с нее не спускал. Полюбилась она ему; кротким ли выражением лица, робостью ли движений -- бог его знает! Вот однажды пробиралась она по двору, осторожно поднимая на растопыренных пальцах накрахмаленную барынину кофту... кто-то вдруг сильно схватил ее за локоть; она обернулась и так и вскрикнула: за ней стоял Герасим. Глупо смеясь и ласково мыча, протягивал он ей пряничного петушка, с сусальным золотом на хвосте и крыльях. Она было хотела отказаться, но он насильно впихнул его ей прямо в руку, покачал головой, пошел прочь и, обернувшись, еще раз промычал ей что-то очень дружелюбное. С того дня он уж ей не давал покоя: куда, бывало, она ни пойдет, он уж тут как тут, идет ей навстречу, улыбается, мычит, махает руками, ленту вдруг вытащит из-за пазухи и всучит ей, метлой перед ней пыль расчистит. Бедная девка просто не знала, как ей быть и что делать. Скоро весь дом узнал о проделках немого дворника; насмешки, прибауточки, колкие словечки посыпались на Татьяну. Над Герасимом, однако, глумиться не все решались: он шуток не любил; да и ее при нем оставляли в покое. Рада не рада, а попала девка под его покровительство. Как все глухонемые, он очень был догадлив и очень хорошо понимал, когда над ним или над ней смеялись. Однажды за обедом кастелянша, начальница Татьяны, принялась ее, как говорится, шпынять и до того ее довела, что та, бедная, не знала куда глаза деть и чуть не плакала с досады. Герасим вдруг приподнялся, протянул свою огромную ручищу, наложил ее на голову кастелянши и с такой угрюмой свирепостью посмотрел ей в лицо, что та так и пригнулась к столу. Все умолкли. Герасим снова взялся за ложку и продолжал хлебать щи. "Вишь, глухой черт, леший!"
 
Татьяна, состоявшая, как мы сказали выше, в должности прачки (впрочем, ей, как искусной и ученой прачке, поручалось одно тонкое белье), была женщина лет двадцати осьми, маленькая, худая, белокурая, с родинками на левой щеке. Родинки на левой щеке почитаются на Руси худой приметой -- предвещанием несчастной жизни... Татьяна не могла похвалиться своей участью. С ранней молодости ее держали в черном теле; работала она за двоих, а ласки никакой никогда не видала; одевали ее плохо, жалованье она получала самое маленькое; родни у ней все равно что не было: один какой-то старый ключник, оставленный за негодностью в деревне, доводился ей дядей да другие дядья у ней в мужиках состояли -- вот и все. Когда-то оде слыла красавицей, но красота с нее очень скоро соскочила. Нрава она была весьма смирного, или, лучше сказать, запуганного, к самой себе она чувствовала полное равнодушие, других боялась смертельно; думала только о том, как бы работу к сроку кончить, никогда ни с кем не говорила и трепетала при одном имени барыни, хотя та ее почти в глаза не знала. Когда Герасима привезли из деревни, она чуть не обмерла от ужаса при виде его громадной фигуры, всячески старалась не встречаться с ним, даже жмурилась, бывало, когда ей случалось пробегать мимо него, спеша из дома в прачечную -- Герасим сперва не обращал на нее особенного внимания, потом стал посмеиваться, когда она ему попадалась, потом и заглядываться на нее начал, наконец и вовсе глаз с нее не спускал. Полюбилась она ему; кротким ли выражением лица, робостью ли движений -- бог его знает! Вот однажды пробиралась она по двору, осторожно поднимая на растопыренных пальцах накрахмаленную барынину кофту... кто-то вдруг сильно схватил ее за локоть; она обернулась и так и вскрикнула: за ней стоял Герасим. Глупо смеясь и ласково мыча, протягивал он ей пряничного петушка, с сусальным золотом на хвосте и крыльях. Она было хотела отказаться, но он насильно впихнул его ей прямо в руку, покачал головой, пошел прочь и, обернувшись, еще раз промычал ей что-то очень дружелюбное. С того дня он уж ей не давал покоя: куда, бывало, она ни пойдет, он уж тут как тут, идет ей навстречу, улыбается, мычит, махает руками, ленту вдруг вытащит из-за пазухи и всучит ей, метлой перед ней пыль расчистит. Бедная девка просто не знала, как ей быть и что делать. Скоро весь дом узнал о проделках немого дворника; насмешки, прибауточки, колкие словечки посыпались на Татьяну. Над Герасимом, однако, глумиться не все решались: он шуток не любил; да и ее при нем оставляли в покое. Рада не рада, а попала девка под его покровительство. Как все глухонемые, он очень был догадлив и очень хорошо понимал, когда над ним или над ней смеялись. Однажды за обедом кастелянша, начальница Татьяны, принялась ее, как говорится, шпынять и до того ее довела, что та, бедная, не знала куда глаза деть и чуть не плакала с досады. Герасим вдруг приподнялся, протянул свою огромную ручищу, наложил ее на голову кастелянши и с такой угрюмой свирепостью посмотрел ей в лицо, что та так и пригнулась к столу. Все умолкли. Герасим снова взялся за ложку и продолжал хлебать щи. "Вишь, глухой черт, леший!" -- пробормотали все вполголоса, а кастелянша встала да ушла в девичью. А то в другой раз, заметив, что Капитон, тот самый Капитон, о котором сейчас шла речь, как-то слишком любезно раскалякался с Татьяной, Герасим подозвал его к себе пальцем, отвел в каретный сарай да, ухватив за конец стоявшее в углу дышло, слегка, но многозначительно погрозил ему им. С тех пор уж никто не заговаривал с Татьяной. И все это ему сходило с рук. Правда, кастелянша, как только прибежала в девичью, тотчас упала в обморок и вообще так искусно действовала, что в тот же день довела до сведения барыни грубый поступок Герасима; но причудливая старуха только рассмеялась, несколько раз, к крайнему оскорблению кастелянши, заставила ее повторить, как, дескать, он принагнул тебя своей тяжелой ручкой, и на другой день выслала Герасиму целковый. Она его жаловала как верного и сильного сторожа. Герасим порядком ее побаивался,. но все-таки надеялся на ее милость и собирался уже отправиться к ней с просьбой, не позволит ли она ему жениться на Татьяне. Он только ждал нового кафтана, обещанного ему дворецким, чтоб в приличном виде явиться перед барыней, как вдруг этой самой барыне пришла в голову мысль выдать Татьяну за Капитона.Татьяна, состоявшая, как мы сказали выше, в должности прачки (впрочем, ей, как искусной и ученой прачке, поручалось одно тонкое белье), была женщина лет двадцати осьми, маленькая, худая, белокурая, с родинками на левой щеке. Родинки на левой щеке почитаются на Руси худой приметой -- предвещанием несчастной жизни... Татьяна не могла похвалиться своей участью. С ранней молодости ее держали в черном теле; работала она за двоих, а ласки никакой никогда не видала; одевали ее плохо, жалованье она получала самое маленькое; родни у ней все равно что не было: один какой-то старый ключник, оставленный за негодностью в деревне, доводился ей дядей да другие дядья у ней в мужиках состояли -- вот и все. Когда-то оде слыла красавицей, но красота с нее очень скоро соскочила. Нрава она была весьма смирного, или, лучше сказать, запуганного, к самой себе она чувствовала полное равнодушие, других боялась смертельно; думала только о том, как бы работу к сроку кончить, никогда ни с кем не говорила и трепетала при одном имени барыни, хотя та ее почти в глаза не знала. Когда Герасима привезли из деревни, она чуть не обмерла от ужаса при виде его громадной фигуры, всячески старалась не встречаться с ним, даже жмурилась, бывало, когда ей случалось пробегать мимо него, спеша из дома в прачечную -- Герасим сперва не обращал на нее особенного внимания, потом стал посмеиваться, когда она ему попадалась, потом и заглядываться на нее начал, наконец и вовсе глаз с нее не спускал. Полюбилась она ему; кротким ли выражением лица, робостью ли движений -- бог его знает! Вот однажды пробиралась она по двору, осторожно поднимая на растопыренных пальцах накрахмаленную барынину кофту... кто-то вдруг сильно схватил ее за локоть; она обернулась и так и вскрикнула: за ней стоял Герасим. Глупо смеясь и ласково мыча, протягивал он ей пряничного петушка, с сусальным золотом на хвосте и крыльях. Она было хотела отказаться, но он насильно впихнул его ей прямо в руку, покачал головой, пошел прочь и, обернувшись, еще раз промычал ей что-то очень дружелюбное. С того дня он уж ей не давал покоя: куда, бывало, она ни пойдет, он уж тут как тут, идет ей навстречу, улыбается, мычит, махает руками, ленту вдруг вытащит из-за пазухи и всучит ей, метлой перед ней пыль расчистит. Бедная девка просто не знала, как ей быть и что делать. Скоро весь дом узнал о проделках немого дворника; насмешки, прибауточки, колкие словечки посыпались на Татьяну. Над Герасимом, однако, глумиться не все решались: он шуток не любил; да и ее при нем оставляли в покое. Рада не рада, а попала девка под его покровительство. Как все глухонемые, он очень был догадлив и очень хорошо понимал, когда над ним или над ней смеялись. Однажды за обедом кастелянша, начальница Татьяны, принялась ее, как говорится, шпынять и до того ее довела, что та, бедная, не знала куда глаза деть и чуть не плакала с досады. Герасим вдруг приподнялся, протянул свою огромную ручищу, наложил ее на голову кастелянши и с такой угрюмой свирепостью посмотрел ей в лицо, что та так и пригнулась к столу. Все умолкли. Герасим снова взялся за ложку и продолжал хлебать щи. "Вишь, глухой черт, леший!" -- пробормотали все вполголоса, а кастелянша встала да ушла в девичью. А то в другой раз, заметив, что Капитон, тот самый Капитон, о котором сейчас шла речь, как-то слишком любезно раскалякался с Татьяной, Герасим подозвал его к себе пальцем, отвел в каретный сарай да, ухватив за конец стоявшее в углу дышло, слегка, но многозначительно погрозил ему им. С тех пор уж никто не заговаривал с Татьяной. И все это ему сходило с рук. Правда, кастелянша, как только прибежала в девичью, тотчас упала в обморок и вообще так искусно действовала, что в тот же день довела до сведения барыни грубый поступок Герасима; но причудливая старуха только рассмеялась, несколько раз, к крайнему оскорблению кастелянши, заставила ее повторить, как, дескать, он принагнул тебя своей тяжелой ручкой, и на другой день выслала Герасиму целковый. Она его жаловала как верного и сильного сторожа. Герасим порядком ее побаивался,. но все-таки надеялся на ее милость и собирался уже отправиться к ней с просьбой, не позволит ли она ему жениться на Татьяне. Он только ждал нового кафтана, обещанного ему дворецким, чтоб в приличном виде явиться перед барыней, как вдруг этой самой барыне пришла в голову мысль выдать Татьяну за Капитона.